I am now going to talk
about admission controllers.
An admission controller can intercept requests
sent to the Kubernetes API server.
For example, when you create a new pod,
a request will be sent to the kubernetes API server;
and this can be intercepted by an admission controller.
This interception happens after the user is authenticated
using a token or certificate, or any other way
of authentication, and authorized, for example, using RBAC
and before the object is persisted, saved, in the backend.
And the backend is basically etcd.
Admission controllers can be enabled by the administrator.
They are typically added at cluster creation
by passing an argument to the kube-apiserver.
So when you launch a kube-apiserver,
they can add the enable admission plugins and they can
specify a list of admission plugins that you want to enable.
By default, there are already quite a few enabled,
which I will go over in the next slide.
And, in the next lecture, I will explain you one
that is currently not enabled by default,
but an interesting one that you should enable.
This default list is specific to a kubernetes version.
Newer kubernetes versions will have
a different admission plugin list
because there are always new admission plugins coming out.
When using kops, it can be configured
using the yaml configuration or with minikube
by passing an argument after minikube start.
I have that documented;
you will see that later on in the demo.
Here is a list of admission controllers.
These are enabled by default in the kubernetes version 1.16;
but then in later versions,
you will see that it might change.
So, for example, the first one is the NamespaceLifecycle.
It enforces that no new objects can be created
when a namespace is in the terminating state.
So when you delete a namespace, this admission controller
makes sure that no new objects can be created.
It will intercept these objects and make sure
that these are not created
when the namespace is in a terminating state.
Then you have the LimitRanger.
Using the LimitRange object type,
you can set the default and limit
CPU memory resources within a namespace.
The LimitRanger admission controller will ensure
these defaults and limits are applied.
So you can apply default and limits
of CPU and memory resources within the namespace
and then this admission controller will make sure
that these are applied when you create a new object.
Then you have the ServiceAccount
which implements the ServiceAccount feature,
and then you have the DefaultStorageClass.
If a PersistentVolumeClaim is created
and it doesn't specify any specific storage,
then this admission controller will add the default
storage class to the PersistentVolumeClaim.
This is mainly to avoid that a user using the cluster
needs to know the storage types.
So if it doesn't specify a specific storage type,
then the default storage class will be injected.
Then you have the DefaultTolerationSeconds
sets a default toleration in seconds
if not explicitly defined by the pod specification.
So this has to do with the tolerations
where I have also lectures on.
If the default toleration is not set,
then this admission controller can set this for you.
NodeRestriction makes sure that the kubelets that run
on every node can only modify their own node
and pod objects, so only those objects
that run on that specific node.
And then you have two interesting ones
that are used a lot: the MutatingAdmissionWebhook
and the ValidatingAdmissionWebhook.
And the MutatingAdmissionWebhook, you can set up a webhook
that can modify the object being sent to the kube-apiserver.
The MutatingAdmissionWebhook ensures that the matching
object will be sent to this webhook for modification.
So you will run some program; this is called a webhook,
in a pod somewhere within your cluster;
and then you can make sure that whenever an object
is created, it first goes to your program, to your webhook,
and then maybe it will make some changes,
maybe it will inject a container,
and then that will then be persisted to the cluster.
So if you want to inject, for example,
a container for every pod that is being created,
you would use the MutatingAdmissionWebhook.
And this is exactly how Istio,
for example, is injecting its sidecars.
And then you have the ValidatingAdmissionWebhook,
which is similar; you can set up a webhook that can validate
the objects being sent to the kube-apiserver.
If the ValidatingAdmissionWebhook rejects
the request, the request fails.
So, for validation purposes, you can then validate whatever
specification that is being used within a pod, for example.
If you don't agree with the specification,
you can reject the request; and then the request will fail.
The pod will not be created, for example.
And then you have the ResourceQuota will check
incoming requests to see if it doesn't
violate the constraints defined
in the ResourceQuota object in a namespace.
So, again, this admission controller can then make sure
that the resources are checked
so that it doesn't go over a specified quota.
And this PodSecurityPolicy is not enabled yet by default
in Kubernetes 1.16, but it might be enabled in the future;
and this one enables you to control the security aspects
of the pods creation and updates.
So, for example, privileged non-privileged
and I have a separate lecture on this admission controller.
So the mutating admission controller
and the validating admission controller are actually
quite interesting because they are very flexible,
and they allow you to extend yourself to webhooks
because you can write your own software,
your own mutating webhook or your own validating webhook
that will then modify the pod specification,
for example, or validate the pod specification.
So here is an overview of how the mutating
and validating admission work.
You have a request coming in to the API HTTP handler,
so this is the kube-apiserver.
The request can be, for example,
when someone does kubectl create of a pod.
So that is a request; it's sent to the API server.
Authentication and authorization needs to happen first.
Once the users are authenticated and authorized,
then the mutating admission invokes the webhook,
which can be a custom piece of software
that might mutate the request.
Then you have the object schema validation.
Validating admission might add some XR validations,
and only then it is persisted to etcd.
And when it's persisted, it might actually have added,
it might have modified, your object.
It might have injected a container, for example.
So that's it for admission controllers;
and then in the next lecture, I will talk a little bit
about the pod security policy admission controller.